#summary Quick installation guide for advanced users

We assume you have MySQL server installed and running.
After installation, MySQL server can be started by running the "mysqld" command, located in the binary directory of mysql, e.g.:

{{{
$ cd /usr/local/mysql-5.1.71-osx10.6-x86_64/bin/
$ ./mysqld &
}}}

Log into mysql as the root user in a terminal (if no password is set, omit -p):
{{{
$ mysql -u root -p
}}}

Create a database (here: webanno as the db name) that !WebAnno can use (encoding UTF-8).
{{{
mysql> CREATE DATABASE `webanno` /*!40100 DEFAULT CHARACTER SET utf8 */;
}}}


Create a user (here: "webanno") that !WebAnno can use. Make sure to add full permissions on the created database. If !MySql and !WebAnno run on different servers, replace 'localhost' with the server's address.

{{{
grant all on webanno.* to 'webanno'@'localhost' identified by "t0t4llYSecreT";
}}}

Create !WebAnno home directory, e.g. `/Users/JohnDoe/Library/WebAnno`

Download Tomcat and extract somewhere

Edit `bin/catalina.sh` and add the following line after the comment section at the beginning of the file

{{{
 export JAVA_OPTS="-Djava.awt.headless=true -Xmx750m -XX:+UseConcMarkSweepGC -Dwebanno.home=/Users/JohnDoe/Library/WebAnno"
}}}

Create a simple text file `/Users/JohnDoe/Library/WebAnno/settings.properties`(change the database user, password, and URL to match your system)

{{{
database.dialect=org.hibernate.dialect.MySQL5InnoDBDialect
database.driver=com.mysql.jdbc.Driver
database.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/webanno
database.username=webanno
database.password=t0t4llYSecreT
}}}


<wiki:comment> THIS IS NO LONGER REQUIRED - WebAnno comes with a default file
Create another simple text file `/Users/JohnDoe/Library/WebAnno/formats.properties`

{{{
text.label=Plain text
text.reader=de.tudarmstadt.ukp.dkpro.core.io.text.TextReader
text.writer=de.tudarmstadt.ukp.dkpro.core.io.text.TextWriter

tcf.label=Weblicht TCF Format
tcf.reader=de.tudarmstadt.ukp.clarin.webanno.tcf.TcfReader
tcf.writer=de.tudarmstadt.ukp.clarin.webanno.tcf.TcfWriter

xmi.label=XMI format
xmi.reader=de.tudarmstadt.ukp.dkpro.core.io.xmi.XmiReader
xmi.writer=de.tudarmstadt.ukp.dkpro.core.io.xmi.XmiWriter

tsv.label=TSV Format
tsv.reader=de.tudarmstadt.ukp.clarin.webanno.tsv.WebannoTsvReader
tsv.writer=de.tudarmstadt.ukp.clarin.webanno.tsv.WebannoTsvWriter
}}}
</wiki:comment>


Fetch the WAR and place it into the webapps folder of your tomcat. Rename it to "webanno.war"

Start Tomcat using `bin/startup.sh` - to stop tomcat, there is a `bin/shutdown.sh` script, e.g.

{{{
$ cd /Applications/apache-tomcat-7.0.42/bin
$ sh startup.sh
}}}

That should be it: `http://localhost:8080/webanno`


You can export the project from the *Projects Settings* page once logged in (and if you have admin privilege). 
  * Click *Projects* in the *Welcome to WebAnno* Page
  * Select a project you are going to export in the *Projects Settings* page
  * Go to the *Export/Import* tab
  * Click the *Export the whole project into the File System* button.

Please make sure that you have turnned of *"Automatically open safe file types"* in Safari to avoid unpacking the exported project on download.

You can import exported project from the *Projects Settings* page. 
  * Below the lists of projects, choose the exported webanno project (ZIP file) 
  * Click *Import Project* button

We recommend using WebKit-based browsers, such as Safari or Chrome.

You can start with the SampleProjects to explore some of the functionalities. 