#summary Release notes for WebAnno 2.1.1

We are pleased to announce the release of

  <font size="5"><b>!WebAnno 2.1.1</b></font>

a web-based annotation tool for a wide range of annotations.


== Improvements since !WebAnno 2.1.0 ==

  * remember size and position of annotation dialog
  * fixed rendering when annotation IDs are not in document order
  * fixed bug in "go to page" when switching between documents
  * fixed bug in automation

Thanks to all bug reporters!


== Tutorial ==

Tutorial videos for !WebAnno 2 are available on [http://goo.gl/MrmHNY YouTube].


== Demo ==

You can test !WebAnno 2.1 on our [https://maggie.lt.informatik.tu-darmstadt.de/webanno/ public demo] (username: guest / password: guest). 


== Download ==

The new version can be downloaded from [http://webanno.googlecode.com/ Google Code].

An in-place upgrade from !WebAnno 2.0.x to !WebAnno 2.1.1 is possible. 
Before any upgrade, please take the usual precautions making backups of your
!WebAnno database and home folder. Observe the general upgrade instructions.
Users may have to explicitly "reload" !WebAnno in the browser once.

!WebAnno 2.1.1 requires Java 7.


== License and System requirements ==

!WebAnno is provided as open source software under the
Apache License version 2. 

Running !WebAnno requires Java version 7 or higher.
A MySQL database and Tomcat server are recommended.

We offer standalone version for testing that requires only
Java 7 or higher and no additional database or server.

!WebAnno works best with Chrome and Safari.

-- The !WebAnno 2.1 developer team