#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

= Upgrade Procedure =

== Upgrading from version 0.2.0 to 0.3.0 ==
The database schema for annotation document and source document is modified to include the *state* of the document.
To upgrade your existing application from 0.2.0 to 0.3.0
  # Start your application server with the new webanno.war file
  # run the following commands in mysql:
{{{
USE webanno;
UPDATE `source_document`  SET `state`='NEW';
UPDATE `annotation_document` SET `state`='INPROGRESS';
UPDATE `source_document` SET `format`='tcf' WHERE `format`='Weblicht TCF Format';
UPDATE `source_document` SET `format`='text' WHERE `format`='Plain text';
UPDATE `source_document` SET `format`='xmi' WHERE `format`='XMI format';
UPDATE `source_document` SET `format`='conll' WHERE `format`='Conll Format';
}}}
  # Restart your application

== Copying data and metadata from version 0.2.0 to 0.3.0 ==
If you have annotation data and metadata in 0.2.0 and want to migrate to 0.3.0, do the following steps

   * Copy database to new 0.3.0 instance
   # create the database for 0.3.0
{{{
mysql> create database webanno
}}}
   # start webanno
   # create mysqldump from 0.2.0
{{{
mysqldump -u root -p webanno > webanno.sql
}}}
   # restore the mysqldump data to 0.3.0 webanno database
{{{
mysql -u root -p  webanno < webanno.sql
}}}
   # make updates appropraitely as stated above (UPDATE `webanno`.....)
   # restart webanno


  * copy database to existing 0.3.0 database
  # create mysqldump only for data
{{{
mysqldump -u root -p -t -c webanno > webanno.sql
}}}
  # restore only the data to the existing database 
{{{
mysql -u root -p -f webanno < webanno.sql
}}}

  # make updates appropraitely as stated above (UPDATE `webanno`.....)
  # restart webanno
== Upgrading from version 0.3.0 to 0.4.0 ==

Before starting using the 0.4.0 war file make the following changes to the authorities schema as follows:
  # change the role column as authority as follows
{{{
>use webanno;
>alter table `authorities`  change `role` `authority` VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL ;
}}}
  # remove the foreign key constraint of user column. to do so, get the name of the constraint as follows:
{{{
>use webanno;
>SHOW CREATE TABLE authorities;
}}}
This will display the name of the foreign key constarint, something simillar as 
{{{
authorities | CREATE TABLE `authorities` (
  `id` bigint(20) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
  `role` varchar(255) NOT NULL,
  `user` varchar(255) DEFAULT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`id`),
  UNIQUE KEY `role` (`role`,`user`),
  KEY `FK2B0F1321393B7DBE` (`user`),
  CONSTRAINT `FK2B0F1321393B7DBE` FOREIGN KEY (`user`) REFERENCES `users` (`username`)
) ENGINE=InnoDB AUTO_INCREMENT=50 DEFAULT CHARSET=latin1 
}}}
  # remove the foreign key constariant as follows
{{{
>alter table `authorities` drop foreign key `FK2B0F1321393B7DBE`;
}}}
  # change user column as follows:
{{{
>alter table `authorities`  change `user` `username` VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL ;
}}}
  # add the foreign key constraint back using the following command

{{{
>alter table `authorities` add foreign key (`username`) references `users` (`username`);
}}}
  * in 0.4.0, the conll reader/writer is changed to tsv reader/writer. in the /srv/webanno/formats.properties file make the following changes
<---
{{{
conll.label=Conll Format
conll.reader=de.tudarmstadt.ukp.clarin.webanno.conll.ConllReader
conll.writer=de.tudarmstadt.ukp.clarin.webanno.conll.ConllWriter
}}}
-->
{{{
tsv.label=TSV Format
tsv.reader=de.tudarmstadt.ukp.clarin.webanno.tsv.WebannoTsvReader
tsv.writer=de.tudarmstadt.ukp.clarin.webanno.tsv.WebannoTsvWriter
}}}

  * change the database entry of source_documents table as follows
{{{
>USE webanno;
>UPDATE source_document SET `format`='tsv' where `format`='conll';
}}}

  * since 0.4.0, projects have modes either as ANNOTATION or CORRECTION. *Restart webbanno* and *then only* update the project table as follows
{{{
UPDATE project SET `mode`='annotation' where `mode` is NULL;
}}}

  # If the username admin is not present, create it as follows:
{{{
INSERT INTO `users` (`username`, `enabled`, `password`) VALUES ('admin', '1', 'b7f76f3d1cfa8746e9d44a9ccca81bf22e0e123f06519fc964f97172d5d61b731e9bf8a11da4a3d0');
}}}
  # Update the authorities table with ROLE_ADMIN for user admin as follows.
{{{
INSERT INTO `authorities` (`authority`, `username`) VALUES ('ROLE_ADMIN', 'admin');

}}}
  # If the user name admin is already there, update the old password with a hash as follows:
{{{
UPDATE `users` SET `password`='b7f76f3d1cfa8746e9d44a9ccca81bf22e0e123f06519fc964f97172d5d61b731e9bf8a11da4a3d0' WHERE `username`='admin';
}}}
  # Log in to webanno using admin/admin
  # Go to *manage users* and update passwords for the remaining users. Make sure that ROLE_USER is selected for every user. Multiple roles can be selected by selecting using *ctrl + click *